Feat(ai-gateway): AI Custom Guardrail plugin (#4551)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/ai-gateway/use-ai-custom-guardrail-with-mistral-ai.md

products:
    - gateway
    - ai-gateway

works_on:
    - on-prem
    - konnect

min_version:
  gateway: '3.14'

plugins:
  - ai-proxy
  - ai-custom-guardrail

entities:
  - service
  - route
  - plugin

tags:
  - ai
  - openai
  - mistral

tldr:
  q: How can I use Mistral AI for content moderation?
  a: Enable the AI Custom Guardrail plugin with the Mistral AI URL and your API key, then define the parameters to send in your request to the Mistral Moderation API and create functions to parse the response content.

tools:
    - deck

prereqs:
  inline:
    - title: OpenAI
      include_content: prereqs/openai
      icon_url: /assets/icons/openai.svg
    - title: Mistral
      include_content: prereqs/mistral
      icon_url: /assets/icons/mistral.svg
  entities:
    services:
        - example-service
    routes:
        - example-route

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

## Configure the AI Proxy plugin

> Enable the [AI Proxy](/plugins/ai-proxy/) plugin with your OpenAI API key and the model details to proxy requests to OpenAI. In this example, we'll use the GPT-4o model:

Author: ```suggestion
Enable the [AI Proxy](/plugins/ai-proxy/) plugin with your OpenAI API key and the model details to proxy requests to OpenAI. In this example, we'll use the GPT 5.1 model:
```
